|                  |                                                                                                                    |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Fecha            | 08 Agosto, 2019                                                                                                    |
| Hora             | [17:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentries_es&iso=20190808T17&p1=1440&ah=1) |
| Lugar            | [Zoom](https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/3135836583)                                                                   |
| Notas originales | [carpentries_es](https://pad.carpentries.org/carpentries_es)                                                       |
| Idioma           | Inglés                                                                                                             |

### Attendees

- Rayna Harris  / UC Davis (USA) / rayna.harris@gmail.com / @raynamharris
- David Pérez-Suárez / UCL (UK) / dps.helio@gmail.com / @dpshelio (gh) / @dvdgc13 (tw)
- Laura Acion / CONICET-UBA, Argentina / lacion@gmail.com / @_lacion_
- Erin Becker
- François Michonneau

# AGENDA

## Objetivo de la reunión:

- R consortium funding opportunity

## Topics

### Recap from previous discussion

- The CoC has been fully [translated into
  Spanish](https://carpentrieshandbook.readthedocs.io/es/latest/topic_folders/policies/index_coc.html)
- There are efforts towards complete the translation of python swc in argentina
- train the trainer in Peru hope to have translated materials
- train the trainer in Buenos Aires

### R consortium funding opportunity

#### Background

At [useR!](http://www.user2019.fr/) Laura met Joseph Rickert who encouraged her
to apply for the R consortium grant. Submission period:  Sept 1 - Oct 1

#### Questions

- what would we use the money for?
  - Pay someone to review the translations
  - why would money be needed to support R ladies
    - lots of overhead for running the workshops, doing the checkout, and
      coordinating workshops. working on calculating staff time it costs but we
      do know that it takes time
    - instructor training would be free regardless, but it would support staff time
  - a dedicated training event could be made for R ladies or they could be
    incorporated into exisiting training, as we normally do

- What effort is required from staff for translation?
  - Spanish, French, German, Japanees. community supported
  - how do staff support the hosting of lessons and the continued continuity?
    - support staff time to pay close attention to implmenting sustainable
    - how do we connect the repos?
    - new workshop templates with language
    - need to make sure there is a community to support maintaince. staff needed for sustainability
  - With the SWC lesson styles this is compitble with multiple languages, the DC
    style isn't quite as easy to parse, but someone needs to "test it".

- Francois also submiting a proposal
  - team up with Carpentries and RLadies
  - pay for RLadies to go through instructor training
  - could lead to knew lesson development and lesson maintaince
- One challenge with translation is the lack of time/expersise from staff to support

- How much money would this be?
  - 46K? 80K? We shouldn't be shy - they can always say no and give us a lower number.

#### Goal of this meeting:  to decide if we want to go for this grant or not

- Combine forces into one proposal - we are going to train women and Spanish (or
  other languages) speakers.
- Extended instructor training where people were taught in English and then
  translated the materials as an exercise.

- How instructor training works?
  - used to be all member-sponser
  - now we have a menu of options so people don't have to wait for open
    training, instead, we fill seats in existing workshops. one month before
    training, we open seats.
  - no longer a year long wait, more like 3 months from submitting application
    to being in training

- The lesson translation itself doesn't take that much staff time, but
  integrating it into the lesson template, publication, lesson infrastructure,
  that takes staff time. (Or time from other people involved in the
  infrastructure, like Raniere)

- Lesson template can be completely independent - you can switch from one
  language to another. At least with SWC lesson style. DC is more tricky. The
  workshop template, don't know what is wanted there. Do we want one template
  for all the langauges? Or one template per language. David to check the options.

- As a maintainer - what is challenging is how to pull in updates to the styles
  or the workshop template without overwriting my translations.

- If we have a release every year, the lesson in Spanish will be behind until
  the next release. The workshop template needs releases to fix things
  (installations problems). Will need higher attention.

- Using R ladies global as an inroad to a diverse community who is committed to
  teaching R and supporting this community.

- Scope of support needed to solve the problem
  - clear we need time to identify the problem and solve the problem
  - joint proposal to support R ladies and translations to increase
    participation of women and minorities. would that work or not as a proposal?
    is this scope too big or disjointed?
  - R consortium goal: needs to support the R community at large. lesson
    templates that can be used by anyone in the R community could be very
    beneficial. have seen $ go to support training and travel.

- A combined grant could be more competitive. However, more people are involved
  in a combined proposal, need to re-scope the budget and the development of
  tools.

- we ask for support to train instructors, translators, and maintainers. Perhaps
  a hackathon to work with maintainers

- Rayna and Laura will work on an outline.
- Francois and Laura can reach out to Angela at RLadies.

#### Timeline

- Get a draft google doc and send it around.
- Laura will be the point person
