  
|||
|--|--|
| Fecha | 19 Marzo, 2019                                                                               |
| Hora  |                                                                                              |
| Lugar |                                                                                              |
| Pad   | [gdoc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zjv2ziKgSWZ7rXdgRkDhI0s3orkvUshCeNSLWnCFURo/edit) |

### Attendants

- Rayna
- Nicolas
- Laura

#### Ausentes


# General comments

* Nicolas works in Quilmes, lives in Nuñez. In his lab, most people live in La
  Plata or Buenos Aires and meet in Quilmes once or twice a week
* Laura in Buenos Aires, Villa Crespo (near Parque Centenario) and often works
  in Ciudad Universitaria (UBA)
* We need to have a clear definition of task/s about developing the
  Spanish-speaking Carpentries. Then take responsibility so each of us take the
  task/s forward.
* It is crucial to get feedback at all times from bottom-up and up-bottom. We
  will need to see what “catches with the community”.
* We want to bring more teaching opportunities in Spanish.
* Main concern: we need to be ready and well organized before launching and
  having the wide community jump in.
* There is no concern about activating the community muscle but about having a plan
* Some stuff will have to be bilingual. We need to decide what. Updating
  bilingual materials can be a problem.
* Providing summaries in Spanish and English is nice. Keep bilingual things in
  Spanish at a minimum. Some documents like lessons change frequently.
* We need to recruit an active crew of Spanish lesson maintainers. It is
  essential that someone is in charge of following up with this crew. We need to
  build community for translations and translation maintenance.
* Prescheduled biweekly calls are a good way to build community
* We need to decide: What needs to be translated? When? What has priority?

# Action Items

* When should we meet next? 
 * 4/9 4 pm UTC at https://zoom.us/j/665523065
 * The meeting will be in English to update Carpentries staff about our future plans
 * We will discuss the content of the [following documents](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/18qBf6gvdz639AWyDSJP9tZnhoMdDJrsI)
 * Set a calendar of next recurring meetings
* What should we accomplish in the meantime?
 * Read and complete the [“vison” documents here the best we can](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/18qBf6gvdz639AWyDSJP9tZnhoMdDJrsI)
* Who should we invite? 
 * Laura, Nicolas and Rayna will invite at least one other person
 * Rayna will invite David, Francois, Sarah?
